cpp-scan/README.md, before:

# C/C++ Scan

## Use cases
This example demonstrates:
- How to use the build wrapper, to wrap the usual build command regardless of what this command is
- How to use external compilation databases instead of the build wrapper generated files
- How to import `clang-tidy` findings in SonarQube

## Build Wrapper usage
- Build normally the project with the command `./build.sh`
- Explain that, for SonarQube analysis, this command must be wrapped with build-wrapper. So run again `build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output ./build.sh`
  - See note about the `download-build-wrapper.sh` script below and adapt the command line accordingly
- Show briefly the generated directory `bw-output`
- Run `sonar-scanner -Dsonar.cfamily.build-wrapper-output=bw-output` to run the analysis.
Explain that the `sonar.cfamily.build-wrapper-output` property must point at the same directory provided to build wrapper


### Things to remember:
- **build wrapper** can "wrap" any build command. For instance
     - This C++ project can also be built with make (command `make -f makefile`) and can equally be wrapped this way (`build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output make -f makefile`)
     - If the project is a Objective-C project the command to wrap would be xcodebuild, (example `build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output xcodebuild`, see [XCodebuild example](../objc-scan-with-coverage))
     - If the project would be a VisualC++ project you would run `build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output MSBuild.exe /t:rebuild`
- For projects with a mix of languages, **build wrapper** must be used as soon as there is a single line of C, C++ or Objective-C
- **build wrapper** can only be run once in the build. If your project is built through different build steps, you must wrap a top command that will build the whole project (all the build steps or at least all steps that build C, C++ or Objective-C)
- **build wrapper** is downloadable from SonarQube, as soon as the SonarCFamily plugin is installed (URL is `<SONAR_HOST_URL>/static/cpp/build-wrapper-<os>.zip`)
- **build wrapper** is redelivered with each SonarCFamily plugin so it's good practice to re download build wrapper each time you update the SonarCFamily plugin.
This can even be done automatically each time you analyze. See the `download-build-wrapper.sh` script

## Experimental - Bypassing `build-wrapper` by using a compilation database

Whenever you are in a situation where you cannot use the build-wrapper (unsupported compiler, OS, ...) you may use the workaround of compilation databases.
If you can produce a compilation database in the [Clang JSON format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html) you may analyze code without running the build wrapper. This directory gives an example:
- Install the python `compiledb` tool:
`pip3 install compiledb`
- Run in on a command that builds the code, this generates the **compile_commands.json** file, then convert this file to build wrapper output format
```
compiledb make -B
./convert-compile-commands.py compile_commands.json bw-output
```
(This can also be done in 1 go with the command `make comp-db`, see makefile)
- Run the scanner

Even better, some compilation tools can generate the compilation DB without actually compiling the code (eg `make --dry-run`), and this is obviously much faster. So you may even analyze C++ code without compiling it. Example: `make --dry-run -B` emulates compilation but does not actually compiles. So you may run `compiledb make --dry-run -B` to generate the compilation DB without even compiling

## Importing `clang-tidy` findings in SonarQube

SonarQube does not support the `clang-tidy` native report format, but this report can be easily converted to the
SonarQube [generic issue report format](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/generic-issue/).
The sample `clang-tidy-to-sonar.py`python script converts from one format to the other
Simply run your `clang-tidy`command with all desired options and send the output to a report file.
Note: `clang-tidy`is more accurate if you can provide a compilation database. See above sectin about build-wrapper bypass to find out how to generate a compilation database.
Use the script to convert the `clang-tidy` report file to the SonarQube generic issue report format. For instance:
```
compiledb make --dry-run build-only
clang-tidy -checks='*' -header-filter="^include" src/*.cc -p . > build/clang-tidy-report.txt
./convert-compile-commands.py build/compile_commands.json bw-output
```

Commit message:

Add native compilation database support

cpp-scan/README.md, after:

# C/C++ Scan

## Use cases
This example demonstrates:
- How to use the build wrapper, to wrap the usual build command regardless of what this command is
- How to use external compilation databases instead of the build wrapper generated files
- How to import `clang-tidy` findings in SonarQube

## Build Wrapper usage
- Build normally the project with the command `./build.sh`
- Explain that, for SonarQube analysis, this command must be wrapped with build-wrapper. So run again `build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output ./build.sh`
  - See note about the `download-build-wrapper.sh` script below and adapt the command line accordingly
- Show briefly the generated directory `bw-output`
- Run `sonar-scanner -Dsonar.cfamily.build-wrapper-output=bw-output` to run the analysis.
Explain that the `sonar.cfamily.build-wrapper-output` property must point at the same directory provided to build wrapper


### Things to remember:
- **build wrapper** can "wrap" any build command. For instance
     - This C++ project can also be built with make (command `make -f makefile`) and can equally be wrapped this way (`build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output make -f makefile`)
     - If the project is a Objective-C project the command to wrap would be xcodebuild, (example `build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output xcodebuild`, see [XCodebuild example](../objc-scan-with-coverage))
     - If the project would be a VisualC++ project you would run `build-wrapper --out-dir bw-output MSBuild.exe /t:rebuild`
- For projects with a mix of languages, **build wrapper** must be used as soon as there is a single line of C, C++ or Objective-C
- **build wrapper** can only be run once in the build. If your project is built through different build steps, you must wrap a top command that will build the whole project (all the build steps or at least all steps that build C, C++ or Objective-C)
- **build wrapper** is downloadable from SonarQube, as soon as the SonarCFamily plugin is installed (URL is `<SONAR_HOST_URL>/static/cpp/build-wrapper-<os>.zip`)
- **build wrapper** is redelivered with each SonarCFamily plugin so it's good practice to re download build wrapper each time you update the SonarCFamily plugin.
This can even be done automatically each time you analyze. See the `download-build-wrapper.sh` script

## Experimental - Bypassing `build-wrapper` by using a compilation database

Whenever you are in a situation where you cannot use the build-wrapper (unsupported compiler, OS, ...) you may use the workaround of compilation databases.
If you can produce a compilation database in the [Clang JSON format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html) you may analyze code without running the build wrapper. This directory gives an example:
- Install the python `compiledb` tool:
`pip3 install compiledb`
- Run in on a command that builds the code, this generates the **compile_commands.json** file, then convert this file to build wrapper output format
```
compiledb make -B
```
(This can also be done in 1 go with the command `make comp-db`, see makefile)
- Add in your sonar-project.properties file the setting `sonar.cfamily.compile-commands=build/compile_commands.json`
- Run the scanner

Note 1: Even better, some compilation tools can generate the compilation DB without actually compiling the code (eg `make --dry-run`), and this is obviously much faster. So you may even analyze C++ code without compiling it. Example: `make --dry-run -B` emulates compilation but does not actually compiles. So you may run `compiledb make --dry-run -B` to generate the compilation DB without even compiling

Note 2: Alternatively you can convert the compilation database to the build wrapper format and still use the `sonar.cfamily.build-wrapper-output` property in your `sonar-project.properties` file. The `./convert-compile-commands.py` script in this repository gives quick and dirty way to convert the files.

```
./convert-compile-commands.py build/compile_commands.json bw-output
```

## Importing `clang-tidy` findings in SonarQube

SonarQube does not support the `clang-tidy` native report format, but this report can be easily converted to the
SonarQube [generic issue report format](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/generic-issue/).
The sample `clang-tidy-to-sonar.py`python script converts from one format to the other
Simply run your `clang-tidy`command with all desired options and send the output to a report file.
Note: `clang-tidy`is more accurate if you can provide a compilation database. See above sectin about build-wrapper bypass to find out how to generate a compilation database.
Use the script to convert the `clang-tidy` report file to the SonarQube generic issue report format. For instance:
```
compiledb make --dry-run build-only
clang-tidy -checks='*' -header-filter="^include" src/*.cc -p . > build/clang-tidy-report.txt
./convert-compile-commands.py build/compile_commands.json bw-output
```
